from occupied East Jerusalem and H what
are we hearing from the Israeli military
on
this the Israeli Army has released a
statement saying that at least 40
Rockets were fired from Lebanese
territory many of them intercepted by
the Iron Dome missile defense system and
the rest falling in open areas at this
point in time they're not reporting any
injury or damage to buildings or
infrastructure it comes after these Isis
had struck several targets they say
inside of Southern Lebanon that belong
to hisbah the Israeli Army is also
saying that earlier on Friday they shot
down two hisbah uavs that they say were
explosive the continuation of the
exchanges of fire the Israeli Army says
is escalating and they are turning from
the defensive to the offensive to
actively pursuing hisbah wherever they
are but this has been something they've
been saying for the last couple of weeks
that they're just no longer on the
defensive but in fact actively pursuing
hisbah wherever they operate whether
it's in Beirut whether it's in Syria or
all across the Middle East the Israeli
Army says they're prepared to fight hisb
La Moore the Israeli Army Chief of Staff
in fact approving plans for more army
and military activity in Southern
Lebanon what they say against more
hisbah targets and infrastructure but at
this time the Israeli Army has not yet
yet responded and has not yet struck
anything in retaliation they say for
these rockets that were fired in one of
the largest barges we've seen since
these border cross border fire exchanges
began all right good stuff there from H
for us actually let me keep you for a
moment and ask you about another
development that's been going on with
the reports of the head of centcom in
Israel hamda what is his mission
understood to be exactly
well it's quite interesting because this
latest barrage of rockets comes as the
Israelis are anticipating a retaliatory
attack from the adians for striking the
adonan Diplomatic mission in Damascus
just a couple of weeks ago so there is a
lot of fear within the Israelis that
there is going to be some sort of large
attack in response and that it is going
to be inside of Israeli territory the
head of centcom meeting with both the
Army chief of staff and the Israeli
defense minister who says quote the US
and Israel stand shoulder toosh shoulder
in the face of any sort of Iranian
threats the Americans say these are
viable threats and they are also
expecting some sort of response now yab
Galant the defense minister says that
there will be an appropriate response
from Israel if there is an attack on
Israeli territory so there are a lot of
moving Parts here within Israel's war
there are many active and open fronts
you have the war on Gaza which is
entering its seventh month we have
passed the 6mon mark there you have the
situation on the northern border that is
continuously escalating that there is no
chance according to the Israelis of it
really being solved with any sort of
diplomatic measure and then you have the
anticipation of this retaliatory Iranian
attack on Israeli territory so there are
a lot of moving Parts but the Israeli
defense and security establishments say
that they are prepared for a wide
variety of scenarios and they have
raised that alert and preparedness level
to the maximum possible scale all right
thanks so much
H let's continue the discussion we've
got here in the studio Al jazer senior
political analyst mwan Bish joins us now
on set mwan first of all let's put this
in context this is not the anticipated
Iranian strike that people have been
talking about right it's safe to say
that this is this is part of the
exchange and dynamic between Hezbollah
and Israel it is but it's also part of
the escalation MH this is not the same
that we've seen the past six months I am
not exactly um on board with Israel's
own characterization of this as going
from the defensive to the offense
because Israel wasn't exactly on the
defense the past six months if you look
only at the number of casualties and The
Targets in in southern Lebanon you will
see that Israel has killed at least 10
times times more um hisbah and Lebanese
than Israelis were killed in the
exchanges and far more targets were hit
in southern Lebanon than they were in
Israel so Israel is not just going
simply from the defensive to the offense
it's actually escalating the war in
Lebanon as it is or has escalated the
war with Iran but what we see today yes
as you stated is hisbah responding uh
more forcefully would say to Israel's
repeated escalations we saw today
earlier today we saw Israeli strikes on
Lebanon we should put it in that context
amidst the the
talk from Israeli military officials on
Sunday talking about what you just
referenced there going on offensive
operations is
there do you see preparations for
anything approaching a round
offensive well you know we've we've
heard uh from the likes of Israel
Defense Minister you have galons threats
and ultimatums that if hisbah escalates
further that Israel is going to turn
beut into another Gaza right so that's
been the ultimatum MH um I'm not sure
how serious that is I doubt at this
point in time while Israel is consumed
by the war on Gaza that it will open
another land front in Lebanon it
certainly would drain its uh sources big
time how much of a strain would that be
to the Israeli military which is having
to reach out to the Earth to ask for
more ammunition just to keep its war
going in Gaza absolutely I think what
we've learned the past six months that
despite all the talk about Israel's
Regional superiority and it does
have a superiority on a number of fronts
notably Air Force and the likes but
opening two land fronts with two
non-state actors like Hamas and
Hezbollah would probably be a blow to
Israel at this point in time and that's
why the Israelis have actually avoided
any such uh opening of two land fronts
because Israel would have liked this
very particular Netanyahu government is
in
fact I mean that's the whole point of
attacking that Iranian consulate right
it wants to expand the war but it
doesn't want to do it a alone it wants
to bring the United States in so if
there's going to be any land invasion of
Lebanon or any expansion or to new
fronts it's going to have to involve
with the United States and just quickly
about that just quickly it's paradoxical
huh that for many decades we thought
that Israel is meant to serve Israel's
America's security and strategic
interest in the area but for the past
six months what has been proven is that
it's the United States
that serves and protects Israel's
strategic and Military interests in I'm
glad you're mentioning the US in this
because this is coming as we've got the
centcom chief visiting Israel is this a
coincidence it's absolutely not a
coincidence I mean if anything what
there's two main things have to be said
about that because I've been thinking
about that much much of the day to be
honest
one I mean yes he is there to study and
prepare for the Iranian response
but more
importantly more
importantly the sencom head is in Israel
to prepare to for the Israeli response
to the Iranian response because that's
more important for the United States at
this point in time I think I think the
United States understands the bid admin
understands that Israel can or will be
somehow in a position to resp to to
defend whatever whether it's against
Iranian drones or against Iranian
missiles and the United States could
help but the major escalation will
happen is is in Israel's response to the
Iranian response does does the US want
to see a major escalation does it want
to get bogged down yet again in another
Middle Eastern conflict when you listen
to them despite the tough talk we're
hearing when you listen to them uh you
hear two things at the same time one is
that they have Israel's back they're
going to do whatever it takes to defend
Israel as Biden put it on the other hand
they don't want in their terms the
regionalization of the war on Gaza
that's what they say now they're trying
apparently at this point in time to
manage the the response to the Iranian
response they're actually even trying to
manage the Iranian response itself there
is indirect talks with Iran about what
it will response will be right and
that's why the Iranians have been quite
koi about what exactly they are going to
be doing is it going to be major it's
going to be a oneoff or it's going to be
series what do you think is likely to
happen there's a lot of anticipation
about whether it will be a massive
Iranian attack is that likely that's
what the Pentagon is saying and they're
talking about the end of the week which
means today tomorrow God knows when the
Iranians continuously remain ambiguous
and I think it's to their to their to
their credit to their advantage they're
clever about it because the longer it
takes and the more guessing there is and
the more diplomats pull out of Israel
and the more tourists don't go to Israel
the better it is for
Iran's capacity to uh issue threats but
look look Sami there is one one
important point that would well we
haven't missed but we haven't really uh
underlined which I think is the most
important point of all this discussion
and it goes as as follows Netanyahu has
been playing Biden like a
fiddle he has has played Biden for
months now Biden continues to say I have
Israel's back and Israel have a right to
defense itself while Netanyahu is taking
this notion of Israel's right to defense
itself into whole other Arenas like
genocide in Gaza like regionalization of
the war when he
can the at the service of his and his
coalition's shortterm
interest he is sacrificing Israel's and
regionals long-term survival and and and
interest and bringing the United States
into it because if this thing escalates
and it could very well escalate it could
very well turn into some kind of
regional confrontation the United States
will get
stuck in a Middle East that it has tried
for the past many years to escape after
20 years of war in Iraq and
Afghanistan after 78 trillion dollar of
American losses we were supposed to be
in an era of ending the forever Wars but
Netanyahu once again is playing Biden
like a fiddle he's trying to bring the
United States back into the Middle East
into a major confrontation with Iran
I'll tell you how what will be the the
Catalyst for that why was Netanyahu
taking those photo up in the with the
press in front of an F-15 I'm not sure
F15 or
F35 in front of a major uh fighter jet
today and
yesterday it's because there is an
understanding that he could actually
attack Iran attack Iran nuclear nuclear
program that he will take advantage of
his own escalation against the Iranian
Consulate in Syria in order then to take
it as a pretext whatever the Iranian
response is and attack the Iran nuclear
among other Targets in Iran right that
will mean an absolute regionalization
involving the United States and Iran and
I think that's what the United States
worries about but the United States is
not taking the initiative it's only
responding to netanyahu's own
ploes I guess time is going to tell and
you'll be here to help us analyze it
Maran
bishara make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer